[DPE-6812] Add mm docs and switch layout (#333)
canonical/kafka-operator: docs/how-to/h-cluster-migration/h-cluster-replicaton.md

# Set up MirrorMaker cluster replication

This How-To will cover how to set up cluster replication using MirrorMaker through [Kafka Connect](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#connect).

[note]
For a brief explanation of how MirrorMaker works, see the [MirrorMaker explanation]() page.
[/note]

## Pre-requisites

To set up cluster replication we need:

- Two Charmed Apache Kafka clusters:
  - An "active" source cluster to replicate from.

>   - A "passive" target cluster to replicate to.

Author: It would mean the same. I think we keep it like this and we can split this doc into two separate how-to as follow up work

### Current deployment

At this point, the deployment should look like this:

```bash
Model  Controller  Cloud/Region         Version  SLA          Timestamp
k      vms         localhost/localhost  3.6.3    unsupported  10:45:37+02:00

App            Version  Status  Scale  Charm          Channel      Rev  Exposed  Message
active         3.9.0    active      1  kafka          3/edge       205  no
passive        3.9.0    active      1  kafka          3/edge       205  no
kafka-connect           active      1  kafka-connect  latest/edge   20  no

Unit              Workload  Agent  Machine  Public address  Ports           Message
active/0*         active    idle   0        10.86.75.171    19092/tcp
passive/0*        active    idle   1        10.86.75.153    9092,19092/tcp
kafka-connect/0*  active    idle   2        10.86.75.45     8083/tcp
```

As advised for active-passive replication, Kafka Connect should be integrated with the passive cluster. In this deployment it would be done by running the following command:

```bash
juju integrate kafka-connect passive
```

> ## Integrate MirrorMaker

Reviewer: I agree. I'd even consider splitting this content into two guides. Active-passive replication and Active-active replication. The shorter a how-to guide is, the better.

To finish the deployment, we need to integrate the MirrorMaker charm with all three applications, both Kafka clusters and the Kafka Connect cluster.

Deploy mirrormaker:

```bash
juju deploy mirrormaker
```

After some time the app should show up in the model as blocked:

```bash
Unit              Workload  Agent  Machine  Public address  Ports           Message
mirrormaker/0*    blocked   idle   4        10.86.75.16                     Integrator not ready to start, check if all relations are setup successfully
```

The MirrorMaker application has two endpoints that can be used with a Kafka cluster: `source` and `target`. The `source` endpoint is used to integrate with the active cluster, while the `target` endpoint is used to integrate with the passive cluster.

```bash
juju integrate kafka-connect mirrormaker
juju integrate mirrormaker:source active
juju integrate mirrormaker:target passive

> ```

Author: Ok. I think the link to the explanation site is redundant though, since it's already mentioned at the very beginning of the doc.

kafka-connect           active      1  kafka-connect  latest/edge   20  no       
mirrormaker             active      1  mirrormaker                   0  no       Task Status: UNASSIGNED
passive        3.9.0    active      1  kafka          3/edge       205  no       

Unit              Workload  Agent  Machine  Public address  Ports           Message
active/0*         active    idle   0        10.86.75.171    9092,19092/tcp  
kafka-connect/0*  active    idle   2        10.86.75.45     8083/tcp        
mirrormaker/0*    active    idle   3        10.86.75.189    8080/tcp        Task Status: UNASSIGNED
passive/0*        active    idle   1        10.86.75.153    9092,19092/tcp  
```

[note]
Task status might show as UNASSIGNED since there are no replication tasks running yet. If the active Kafka cluster is idle, this is expected. The task status will change to `RUNNING` once the replication tasks are created and started.
[\note]

With this, the deployment is complete. The MirrorMaker charm will now start replicating data from the active cluster to the passive cluster.

## Integrate active-active clusters.

> MirrorMaker allows for a deployment where both clusters are active. This means that data can be replicated from both clusters to each other. This is done by creating a MirrorMaker connector for each cluster. Two flows are needed in this scenario, one from cluster A to cluster B and one from cluster B to cluster A.

Author: The issue with active-active is that now we have two "active-passive" flows each going on both directions. In active active, both cluster are active and passive at the same time, and both are source and targets. That's why I switched to a different naming.  I don't really know how to differentiate them better.

In essence, it is equivalent to do two active-passive deployments, one on each direction. 

It is also recommended to have two Kafka Connect deployments ready, one on each end of the replication.

> ### Initial deployment

Reviewer: note: That's the last heading of the guide. It feels like something is missing.

Author: Updated to just `Deployment`

> Two Mirrormaker integrators need to be deployed with the config option `prefix_topics` set to `true`. This will ensure that the topics are prefixed with the cluster name, so that they do not collide with each other.

Reviewer 2: **todo:**
```suggestion
To ensure that the topics are prefixed with the cluster name and do not collide with each other, deploy 2 different Mirrormaker integrators with the config option `prefix_topics=true`:
```

```bash

> juju deploy mirrormaker --config prefix_topics=true mirrormaker-a-b
> juju deploy mirrormaker --config prefix_topics=true mirrormaker-b-a

Reviewer 2: **todo:**
```suggestion
juju deploy mirrormaker-connect-integrator --config prefix_topics=true mirrormaker-a-b
juju deploy mirrormaker-connect-integrator --config prefix_topics=true mirrormaker-b-a
```

```

> A deployment with two clusters and active-active setup would be similar to this.
> 
> ```bash

Reviewer 2: **todo:**
````suggestion
At this point, the deployment should look like this:

```text
````

Reviewer: Check my suggestions for the similar part in active-passive.

mirrormaker-b-a           active      1  mirrormaker                   0  no       Task Status: UNASSIGNED

Unit                Workload  Agent  Machine  Public address  Ports           Message
kafka-a/0*          active    idle   0        10.86.75.171    9092,19092/tcp  
kafka-b/0*          active    idle   1        10.86.75.153    9092,19092/tcp  
kafka-connect-a/0*  active    idle   2        10.86.75.45     8083/tcp        
kafka-connect-b/0*  active    idle   2        10.86.75.46     8083/tcp        
mirrormaker-a-b/0*  active    idle   3        10.86.75.189    8080/tcp        Task Status: UNASSIGNED
mirrormaker-b-a/0*  active    idle   3        10.86.75.190    8080/tcp        Task Status: UNASSIGNED
```

Then the integrations needed should be done like follows:

```bash
# active-passive  A -> B
juju integrate kafka-connect-b kafka-b
juju integrate kafka-connect-b mirrormaker-a-b
juju integrate mirrormaker-a-b:source kafka-a
juju integrate mirrormaker-a-b:target kafka-b

# active-passive  B -> A
juju integrate kafka-connect-a kafka-a
juju integrate kafka-connect-a mirrormaker-b-a
juju integrate mirrormaker-b-a:source kafka-b
juju integrate mirrormaker-b-a:target kafka-a
```

> With this, the deployment is complete. There will be two replication flows from A to B and from B to A. The topics will be prefixed with the cluster name, so that they do not collide with each other. eg: a topic called `demo` in cluster A will be called `kafka-a.replica.demo` in cluster B, and a topic called `demo` in cluster B will be called `kafka-b.replica.demo` in cluster A.

Reviewer 2: **todo:**
```suggestion
With this, the deployment is complete. There will be two bi-directional replication flows between `kafka-a` and `kafka-b`. The topics will be prefixed with the cluster name, so that they do not collide with each other.

For example, a topic called `demo` created on `kafka-a` will be replicated as a new topic on `kafka-b` named `kafka-a.replica.demo`, and visa versa.
```
